---
title: 'Advent of Code: Day 3'
date: 2015-12-03
programming/languages:
- Python
programming/sources:
- Advent of Code
series:
- Advent of Code 2015
---
<a href="http://adventofcode.com/day/3">Source</a>

**Part 1:** Given a string of `<>^v` characters which mean move west, east, north, or south respectively and starting at the origin, how many unique positions do you pass through?

<!--more-->

```python
presents = collections.defaultdict(lambda : 0)
location = 0+0j

directions = {'<': -1+0j, '>':  1+0j, '^':  0+1j, 'v':  0-1j}

for c in sys.stdin.read():
    location += directions.get(c, 0+0j)
    presents[location] += 1

print(len(presents))
```

There are two tricks here, both of which I've used before. First, we have use `collections.defaultdict` to implement a basic counter. That way, we can safely do `+= 1` to any element without worrying if it exists first and without initializing the (potentially infinite) grid.

Second, we represent points using {{< wikipedia "complex numbers" >}}. That has the advantage of meaning that movement is just adding two (complex) numbers together and we can directly index the `presents` dictionary with the locations.

At the end, the `len` of a dictionary is the number of keys, thus exactly equal to the number of locations visited (which thankfully works correctly even with a `defaultdict`). Neat. 

**Part 2:** Start with two actors, each at the origin. Apply alternating characters to first one then the other, such that `^v^v` would result in one moving north twice, the other two south. 

```python
presents = collections.defaultdict(lambda : 0)
presents[0+0j] = 2

locations = [0+0j, 0+0j]
directions = {'<': -1+0j, '>':  1+0j, '^':  0+1j, 'v':  0-1j}

for i, c in enumerate(sys.stdin.read()):
    which = i % len(location)
    locations[which] += directions.get(c, 0+0j)
    presents[locations[which]] += 1

print(len(presents))
```

The basic code is the same here, the only difference is that we determine `which` actor is moving using {{< wikipedia "modular arithmatic" >}} (`%`). One neat thing about this is that it scales without any other changes to any number of actors merely by putting more elements in the initial `locations` array.